---
layout: travel-post
title: "Taiwan"
category: travel
zoom: 5
coords:
  - lat: 47.6097
    lng: -122.3331
  - lat: 45.5200
    lng: -122.6819
---

I took advantange of Thanksgiving break to visit Mom, Dad, and family in Taiwan for the
first time in over three years. It was a good trip. I left the Saturday before the week
of Thanksgiving and I'm currently on my flight back to SF the Monday morning after.
I spent four nights in Chiayi and four nights in Taipei.

It's interesting how my preferred dynamic has changed so much. In Chiayi, I was often
frustrated with how people spoke to me, not really listening and acting as if I were
still a kid. I definitely lost my patience a few times as a result. I enjoyed spending
a lot of time with Gua Gua. She's ever friendly and kind. One day, we drove all around
Kaohshung, seeing a temple (Fu something something), going shopping at E-Da, walking
around the odd rocky formations of the Lunar World, eating (supposedly) Kaohshung's best
beef noodle soup, and taking in the nighttime skyline view of Kaohshung from a scenic
hill. I slept a lot in the car.

The next day, I met up with Long Long, and the whole family went out for a buffet lunch
at this restaurant in the amusement park. Afterwards, we went to a pineapple cake maker
store, where I lost my patience/temper at my mother, because I thought she had said
I couldn't go to Alishan and because of the afore-mentioned dynamic issue. I felt bad,
and I was definitely in the wrong for acting out. Mom and I went to see contacts
afterwards. Later, Gua Gua, Long Long, and I went to the night market, where we hit the
batting cages.

Gua Gua and I left the house at 0300 the next morning to go to Alishan. It was a much
more involved affair than I had thought. We took the crowded train up to a scenic point
where we watched the sunrise in the cold. It was pretty but not totally breathtaking.
Afterwards, we walked down the mountain back to the train station and our car. We napped
in her car, then got a famous bento-box-esque lunch on the mountain, before heading
home. I rested at home cor a bit, then we scooted around and browsed some stores before
teppanyaki dinner with everyone. This was the last night I was to see Gua Gua, so we
bowled a bit after.

Lifted the next morning at the water park before grabbing some really good Korean food
with Jo Ma, Jo Jo, and mom. Then, we got a massage. I mistakenly asked for hard, which
left me quite sore in some places, actually. Mom took me around Wen Hua Rd area, eating
a bunch of different street foods for dinner. At one point, I was sitting in a small
indentation in the wall (a garage devoid of any ventilation) and thinking deeply about
life in Taiwan, generational differences, and what the hell I'm to do with the luxury
I have. Anyway, it came time to say goodbye to everyone, and mom's dad really touched me.
He had been staying up (well, laying down awake) in bed waiting for us, and as I said
goodbye, he took my hands into his frail hands, and started singing, blindly and deafly,
that he hopes we'll see each other again (zhai jin). I felt a strong bond to him then.
I don't know if I will get to see him again, in actuality...

Friday morning was the first day in Taipei. We had a buffet lunch at Brother Hotel
(typical). I noted how Grandpa became more frail, and how he still dresses in a suit
everyday haha. Grandma's her same cheeful self as always. Afterwards, mom, dad, and
I went to Yangmingshan. It was a pleasant walk through the wooded mountains and we all
talked a bit. After we rode the bus down, Mom and I walked around the station underground
mall a bit before heading home.

The next day, I worked out briefly in the morning (saw uncle and grandma chatting in the
park) before we all had a brief local lunch. Then, mom, dad, and I set off to go view
a waterfall. It is a huge tourist attraction. You take this train in through a rural,
wooded, and hilly area. The train then runs straight through a narrow corridor in a town.
That is where you get off. The narrow corridor is flooded with small stores and tourists.
One big attraction is launching fire lanterns, which while beautiful made me a bit sad,
because of its environmental impact. We followed some roads and trails to the falls. One
scenic portion led us through "bamboo arches" on top of a wooden platform. The falls
itself were okay; they are supposedly the broadest in Taiwan. The best vantage point,
from below, was closed off, so we had to view from the observation deck above and to the
side. We crossed a rocky suspension bridge on the way back. Then, we headed home and
called it a day.

The last day in Taipei was a good one. The entire family met up for a buffet lunch.
Grandma, Gramps, Grandmas brother, his spouse, their daughter, GuGu GuZhang, Suwen,
husband, JaFong, two babies. It was really cool seeing four generations together. I also
think I had a better time because I was actually treated like an adult. Talked a bit to
Suwen and GuZhang. We laughed about how GuZhang saved me from drowning when I was three.
Eventually, I played with Suwen's adorable daughter, Sophie, as well. She was very
playful and always laughing. At JaFong's prodding, she eventually called me "Uncle", and
we started playing across the table. She was very cute and I can't wait to see her grow
up. Lunch made me realize, as I put it then, that "going home to Taiwan and seeing my
family is good for my soul". For some quality inside of me that helps me be more human,
more kind. Everyone departed rather quickly, and I didn't properly get to say goodbye to
people! Mom, Dad, and I went to Elephant mountain near 101. This involved some pretty
steep stair climbs. During the ascent, I was actually concerned for my parent's safety.
They were okay though. The views were pretty, and the crowds dense. Afterwards, seeing
101 so close, we walked there and browsed the mall a bit. We went home, and I got beef
noodle soup. Sat for a bit with the family in the living room, then called it a trip
