---
layout: post
title: "Backpacking gear"
category: travel
---

After a couple months and a couple trips, I have gathered most of the basic items I need
to go on weekend backpacking trips. Thus, here's my pack V1.

### Kelty Redwing
My bag was the easy one; I've had my Kelty Redwing since I bought it freshman year of
college for lugging around books and whatever else college kids lug around. It's a front
loader, and while certainly not as shiny and flashy as "real" backpacking bags, it
definitely does the trick. Pretty rugged too, it's still in good shape.

### Tent
I got a Mountain Hardwear 2.5 person tent that is pretty solid. However, it is a bit
heavy, at ~5.5lbs. It is plenty spacious, with two large doors. It takes up probably 80%
of the space in my bag. I am starting to look into ultralight shelters.

### Sleeping Bag
Also from Mountain Hardwear, my down sleeping bag has been great. Warm, light, compresses
down to almost no volume.

### NeoAir
Sleeping pad has been great. A bit noisy, as other reviews have noted, but I sleep
comfortably.

### Sea To Summit
Sleeping bag liner has also been very effective at keeping me warm. I like that I can
just throw it in the wash and keep my sleeping bag clean.

### Black Diamond ReVolt
The Black Diamond ReVolt headlamp has been pretty good. Bright and with different modes.
One annoyance is that I seem to turn it on accidentally often, as the battery drained
quickly. I haven't figured out how to lock it yet (threw away the instructions, assuming
it'd all be intuitive).

### Platypus GravityWorks
The Platypus GravityWorks has been cool. Just scoop up water into the dirty bag and let
them hang! I really like using it as an in-camp water source. It does seem a bit overkill
for solo missions though.

### Bush
My Bush knife is crazy sharp. Haven't used it much, besides for cutting open food
wrapping and my finger.

### Snow Peak GigaPower & Titanium Cookset
Just got a Snow Peak GigaPower stove and Snow Peak titanium cookset. Only used it once to
boil water, but they both seem to work well.

### Serac Hammock
The Serac hammock is my latest acquisition! I hammock camped in it at Fort Bragg and had
tons of fun. Incredibly easy to setup and pretty light. Some quality issues though, the
bag came frayed. Serac is a young company.
