---
layout: travel-post
title: "Emigrant Wilderness"
category: travel
zoom: 15
coords:
  - lat: 38.262929
    lng: -119.745384
---

For my first solo backpacking trip and my first motorcycle backpacking trip, I took
a trip to Emigrant Wilderness in Stanislaus National Forest.

I loaded my gear into my TraX hard side cases and Givi top case, donned my backpack, and
took off Saturday morning around 0800. Navigation was pretty easy, taking 80, 580, 205,
120, and 108. However, I did get tired and needed to take a couple breaks. My helmet was
tight at times, my hands grew a little numb from the constant handlebar vibrations, and
my ass got tired from the not too comfortable seat. Once I passed Sonora and entered the
forest, the 108 became very fun; I made some nice tight turns. Reached the Summit Ranger
Station in Pinecrest with no problem, then followed directions to Gianelli TH. I got on
Crab Tree Rd, which turns into a gravel road densely pocketed with ditches. I stood on my
footpegs to get a higher vantage point and swerved around the holes. At one point, I must
have grown too comfortable. I missed a large loose gravel patch and my front wheel slid
out to the right from under me. I was thrown over my bike, and my bike ended up on her
left side, inches away from falling off the side of the road. I cursed at myself, then
picked up my bike and continued carefully. Reached the trailhead, parked, changed, loaded
my gear into my backpack, checked the TH map, and set off at noon.

The TH was at a higher elevation than expected, mid-8000s. I breezed through the first
couple miles, which had decent gains. I ventured upon a lake early on in the trail.
I passed a large group of boyscouts, whom I would meet once again. Descnding some long
switchbacks in dense foreset, I encountered three horsemen. The elderly man in the rear,
upon hearing I was headed to Toejam Lake, recommened I go to Upper Relief instead,
stating that the two are the same distance. I kept that in mind. I continued onwards and
quickly passed two signposts for lakes. Toejam, I knew, would be a right at the third
signpost. I crossed over open hillside, dense forest, rocky outcroppings, and a wide open
meadow before reaching the third sign. However, the crossing pointed to Salt Lake Meadow.
I did not realize Toejam was down that way. Furthrmore, I erroneously assumed Toejam
would be in the same direction as Upper Relief, which the sign explicitly pointed to.
Thus, I headed for Upper Relief.

By now, it was mid afternoon. This part of the hike was far more difficult. The altitude
had caught up with me. Altitude sickenss was fully upon me. Soon, my breathing grew
shallow and quick, my head grew light, I became nauseous, I began personifying wood
objects. I took very frequent breaks, some every five minutes, some every couple steps.
It didn't help that I hadn't yet refilled my water. I eventually reached Upper Relief and
came upon water. In my stubborness, though, I continued on, determined to find Toejam
Lake. I continued on down Lower Relief Valley until 5PM, when I decided I must head back
for camp at the second lake I had encountered. I was dreading heading back up Lower
Relief Valley, but before I knew it, the ascent levelled out and I was getting water from
Upper Relief. I must have acclimatized enough. Energized, I marched back the way I came,
seeing not a single soul. I made great time, enjoying how the last few sparse sunrays hit
the empty landscape. I reached the signpost for Whitesides Meadow Lake and followed the
trail down almost a mile to the lake. There were several large, loud groups there. The
sound of human voice and the sight of fire was very comforting. I picked a spot on the
opposite side of the lake, which I would have all to myself. I quickly setup my hammock
as darkness fell. I failed to make a fire, so I enjoyed a nice warm dinner, before
heading to sleep.

I woke up to the bright day around 8. The hammock's nestling walls had slightly shielded
me from the brightness of the surrounding world. I leisurely had some oatmeal and tea,
wrote a bit in my journal, and headed out. Again, I made great time, determined to get
back to SF early. I passed many groups of people, including a Ranger. I eventually
figured out I had indeed missed the turn for Toejam Lake, towards Salt Lake Meadow. The
hike back was easy. Back at the TH, I packed up my bike and went on my way. Until trouble
hit that is. I was being quite careful on the gravel road, averaging 15mph. I eventually
passed the two leading cars. Just as I was about to reach pavement, I let my guard down.
From gravel to asphalt, there was a large ditch and bump. I hit it too fast. I went down
once again, my bike ending up on the side of the road. The cars behind me stopped and
asked if I needed help. I cursed myself and stood up my bike. This time, there was actual
damage to it. The clutch lever was snapped. Defeated, I accepted a ride with the kind Boy
Scout troup down to the Summit Ranger Station. There, I found a tow truck, motorcycle
shop, and called Shreerag and Shin. Chatted with the tow truck driver, who was friendly.
Dropped off the bike with Adam at Adam's Power Sports (who was also friendly), then hiked
one last mile to a shopping center to eat Jack in the Box. Not quite how I expected to
end my trip.
