---
layout: post
title: "Oldies"
category: books
---

Recently sold a bunch of books to Recycle Bookstore in San Jose, in
anticipation of moving to San Francisco.  A little sad, because I had always
wanted to have a large, musty home library when I'm older. Getting rid of them
will let me stay light; if I ever do want to re-read any of these books, I can
always download them on my Kindle (I did keep books I either may re-read or
just couldn't part with). For now, here's a list (alphabetized because I was
bored one night and needed to practice coding), along with some notes.

####  Ambrose, Stephen E. - Undaunted Courage

####  Dostoyevsky, Fyodor - Crime and Punishment

####  Dumas, Alexandre - The Count of Monte Cristo

I thought this was a great read.

####  Franklin, Benjamin - Autobiography

####  Heinlein, Robert A. - Stranger in a Strange Land

Book with two halves.

####  Hosseini, Khaled - The Kite Runner

Great dive into a foreign land, with a touching human story to boot.

####  Isaacson, Walter - Einstein

####  Kerouac, Jack - On the Road

Sometimes you feel out of breath just reading Kerouac's flowing prose.

####  Lee, Harper - To Kill a Mockingbird

####  Lorayne, Harry & Jerry Lucas - The Memory Book

####  Luttrell, Marcus - Lone Survivor

Pretty epic story of a badass Navy SEAL.

####  Martin, George R.R. - A Clash of Kings

####  Martin, George R.R. - A Feast for Crows

####  Martin, George R.R. - A Game of Thrones

####  Martin, George R.R. - A Storm of Swords

####  Meredith, Martin - The Fate of Africa

####  Orwell, George - 1984

####  Rand, Ayn - Anthem

####  Rand, Ayn - Atlas Shrugged

####  Rand, Ayn - The Fountainhead

Very influential, in good and bad ways.

####  Salinger, J.D. - The Catcher in the Rye

####  Vonnegut, Kurt - Cat's Cradle
