---
layout: post
title: "2015 in Review"
category: life
---

2015 was a good year. Some lists:

### Things Read
Had a reading drought through most of the year.

* A Lesson Before Dying
* The Invention of the Aeropress
* The Brothers Karamazov
* Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
* Into Thin Air
* Zero to One
* The Making of the Atomic Bomb
* The Alchemist
* Norwegian Wood
* Anathem
* Seveneves

### Locations Travelled
Good year for getting into backpacking.

* Seattle, Portland, SF
* Mount Diablo
* Nola
* Turkey Springs, Big Sur
* Lake Aloha, Desolation Wilderness
* Sykes Springs, Big Sur (x2)
* Whitesides Meadow Lake, Emigrant Wilderness
* Forest of Nisene Marks
* Sword Lake
* Portland
* Chiayi/Alishan/Taipei, Taiwan
* Puerto Vallarta, Mexico
* Galapagos Islands/Quito, Ecuador

### Lifting Achievements
Only upper body PRs....

* Bench 205x5x5
* Press 135x5x5
* Chinup 110x1

Also, played a season of volleyball. Bump improved a lot, set isn't that great, can't
spike, have a lot of potential for serves.

Played some tennis with Shin, just need to continue getting a feel.

### Songs Learned
Mostly stuff with Shin. Nothing interesting, instrumental-wise. Just simple strumming.

* Above the Clouds
* I See Fire
* Call It Off
* Shirtsleeves
* Give Me Love
* I'm a Mess
* Northern Wind

* Misery
* Dandelion
* Eyes Like Sky
* Black
* High And Dry
* Princess of China
* Coming of Age
* Apartment

### Work
Mostly underwhelming, except which for VAD, which is conveniently dead now.

* LCI
* Tools
* WeatherNorm
* Whole Building
* Predmaint
* VAD

### Things I Learned
* Scala
* Spark
* Backpacking

### Etc Life
Life's been good. 2015 is the year I met and fell in love with Shin.

* Purchased VStrom 650
* Met and started dating Shin
* Above & Beyond
* Ocean Beach Bonfire
* APOD New Tab
* EDC
* Fourth of July Mammoth
* Sunday Free Concerts
* Midnight Mystery Ride
* Skydiving
* Journey to the End of the Night
* Guitar on the roof
* Skeet Shooting
* 5 guys


I'm very happy with Shin. I'm not very happy with my job. I don't really have a definite
direction, and thus there is no relentless drive. I guess I'm okay with that, for now.

### Some Goals for 2015
* Read at least (12) books...
* (3) of which are "serious".
* Go on at least (7) backpacking trips...
* (2) of which are solo.
* Learn at least (12) songs...
* (4) of which are hard.
* Determine next steps.
* Enjoy every moment with Shin.
* Spend time with family.
* Start and finish (1) side project. (Go work at Noisebridge!)
* "Get back into" music. Discover (5) bands you *really* like.
* Serious lifting again. At least 305/215/425/145.
* (1) solo travel trip?
